-Not finished yet!-  
  
Within the context of Urban Planning, there are some communication flaws present which result inUrban planning is achieved by cooperation of different stakeholders within a project. These stakeholders have to communicate with each other in such a way that they achieve the best result possible to solve an urban problem. 
Stakeholders can be divided in five larger categories: business: existing of companies, urban planners, architects, … ; cash: capital, investors, revenue, … ; public: municipalities, government, public organisations, … ; knowledge: universities, research and development, … ; and residents which exist of local civilians and organisations representing those civilians.1 
The complex relationship between the different stakeholders changes from project to project which makes it difficult to design one communication platform. Because communication doesn’t always go as planned, some (onderhandelingen) between stakeholders (worden regelmatig uit de weg gegaan). Decisions are than taken with only minor (inspraak) from the lesser, but even important, stakeholders.
Together with Anton Lecock, I’m going to research the communication-problem between these stakeholders. We’re planning to research how communication happens between these stakeholders, which parts are left behind in the process and how we can solve them since there is a growing need for a solution of this problem. The purpose of our research is to find out if the need for a better communication-platform is present and if so, to try and use our graphic- and information design skills to built a solution.
This solution can be as simple as providing a imagery to help every stakeholder communicate or by building an online platform on which these stakeholders can give input in a simple way. 
